want to rinse your regulator and a little chlorine just so you don't spread germs.
And you hang that up.
And then right away, you take a, now we have such a wonderful camp, we can take a warm water, fresh shower right away because we have fresh water maker and we have all kinds of pumps.
We had four flush toilets this summer for the first time ever in a camp.
We used to just have a little outhouse over the sea somewhere.
And how far away normally are the camps from a town?
This one is,
probably, it's a 40 minute by fishing boat.
The fishing boat probably does about six miles an hour, so it's probably four miles from the nearest village where there's a road where we can park cars.
And we have, we once stayed in a place before we had a fresh water maker, the glass wreck where
The nearest town was three hours away by boat, and the only fresh water we had for 30 people was brought out twice a week in 55-gallon oil barrels.
And that meant that we had to bathe in salt water and then just have one cup a day to rinse in.
You let it trickle over, you had to get the salt out.
And so when I say that things were rougher in the old days, yeah, we've got a lot of fancy things like fresh water makers now.
So then they'll be filling tanks, then somebody else will be barge chief, and then there'll be people who don't have anything else to do, will be removing concretion,
or sieving the amphoras, or there'll be people upstairs cataloging.
And all this is now done with computers so that instead of bringing back a trunk full of field notes, dialogues, catalog cards, negatives and all that, now on one CD-ROM I bring back every single object that's cataloged with a beautiful color photograph of the object right there.
We keep a daily log and we take turns, a diary where students take turns writing about what's happened during the day.
We illustrate each day with two digital color photographs, either underwater on the site or something that's happened in the camp that day or some specific object or sometimes just a fun picture like a toga party we had.
So then there are other people working in the computer room.
We have an air conditioned computer house now.
the camp and they're working on the plan entering all this all these data that allow them to make this three-dimensional plan using photographs and measurements and things I don't even understand.
There'll be other people there maybe keeping the daily journal that's like our diary.
So everybody is busy all day.
Everybody is very busy all day.
Then lunch is?
Lunch is at 1230, and we've had for the last few years a wonderful, and I know it sounds like an oxymoron, a fantastic English cook, a young lady that, I mean, we don't lose weight when we dive anymore.
We used to lose 20 or even 30 pounds in the field because the water, even when you're wearing a wetsuit, absorbs heat and burns calories very quickly.
But she makes so many wonderful dishes,
And she has a very full kitchen.
It's no longer just a little tiny stove or something.
She has, you know, an electric oven and two refrigerators, a deep freeze.
We have a fresh, you know, a drink cooler.
And so we have a nice lunch.
And then usually we start the diving again at between, we get back together, we'll ring a bell, and everybody comes back to the dining room, which is just a large room with all the roofs except for the computer room, which has got a red tile roof, or just roof with matting.
And with some plastic sheets in case it rains because we got caught in rainstorms and we didn't have that.
And then we just put mosquito netting around so we're not being bitten by flies or mosquitoes when we have our meals.
And so you're in a place like a pavilion of some sort.
And it's a large room with a lot of tables and chairs.
And so we'll have another meeting and discuss the afternoon's work and people can tell what they've done.
And then we go back and repeat what we've done in the morning.
We try to have dinner at 7.30.
We try to turn off all the generators at 10 so that
People get a good eight hours sleep.
If they want to leave with a flashlight in bed, they can do that, but we ask them not to talk or anything, that sort of thing.
How many days a week do you do that?
We do this six days a week.
Friday is our day off, not Sunday, because Friday,
traditionally had been market day, and that's when we go buy a lot of the food.
And it's just stayed Friday no matter where we are.
And so it's six days a week.
One of the things that is of interest is that, I don't know whether, you can always edit this out, but because this has been a dry campus for so long, is that just because we're diving, we don't allow anyone to have more than one
alcoholic drink a day.
So that means with their dinner, before dinner, after dinner, whenever they want it, they can have a glass of wine, a beer, or a cocktail if they've got the makings out there, which very few people do.
It's hot, so those that want alcohol usually go to the cooler and get a beer.
And we don't pay for that.
People check their own soft drinks and beer.
And a lot of them, a surprising number of kids today are non-alcoholic.
It's not that they
have anything against it.
It's just they've never got a taste for it, and so a lot of soft drinks go.
Where do you get ice?
We have a deep freeze, and we have a cooler, and we make ice with the refrigerators.
Okay.
I mean, we're pretty nicely now.
Have there ever been any awkward religious moments in the Turkish projects?
of the projects located in Turkey.
There's never been one that's a humorous one, but it's back when I was at Penn.
There was a young girl who was, who was a very devout Catholic.
And we were going to Yasada, that means Flat Island.
It's a, it's an absolute rock, the size of a football field.
And it's where we spent about seven or eight summers of our lives.
In fact, we have worked there since we've been at Texas A&M.
And this devout Catholic girl just knew we were going to this island and said, is there a Catholic church on it?
And, uh, I wanted to say, oh dear me, there's not a Catholic church within.
100 miles of where we were going to be, but she came and, and, uh.
Describe what it's been like working with the Turkish bureaucracy, Turkish government.
We've had excellent relations with the Turkish bureaucracy.
Um, uh, they like us.
Um, they, they know our affection for the country.
They feel it.
They sense it.
Even though I'm not fluent in Turkish, they'll, they'll ask me sometimes at an international meeting,
Come on, sit with us, George, you know, you're half Turkish.
We've had, we've run into people who have made life difficult, but that can happen anywhere, I suppose.
We've run into, once we had a chief of police in the early days, but that's in the early sixties, who sort of harassed us because he was moored and we were the only thing in town that was that visible.
One of the things that helped us is that from Bodrum being a town of 5,000, a little sleepy fishing village where you drove over unpaved roads 10 hours to get there and now you whiz in on a dual lane highway and three hours from Izmir, the nearest town.
There's a huge international airport in Bodrum, I forgot that.
It's B-O-D-R-U-M.
B-O-D-R-U-M, uh-huh.
And so one of the things that helped us is that now there's so many foreigners here in the summer that people don't notice us like they used to.
So that's helped us a great deal.
Has anyone ever tried to walk off with some of the
priceless items that you all have located?
We have, in general, covered our wrecks with tons of sand at the end of each summer to protect them.
People know where we are.
They can see us.
A foreign yacht could sail in at night, and this has happened in other countries, and tear a sight to pieces.
And so we covered not so much to hide it, because anybody that goes by our camp knows exactly where we're diving every day, but just to make it more difficult for somebody to go and pick something up.
However, we have no evidence that anyone's even tried to do that, and in fact,
We raised, we now raise everything, but in the early days, we were so naive, we thought that all the amphoras on the wreck were alike, and so we'd raise a sample and just set the others aside.
And so we still go back now to a site we dug in the early 60s, and we can't see that anybody's ever touched those amphoras.
They've been sitting down there for almost 40 years, and yet it's not within sight of any Coast Guard base or anything.
I think that Turkey does protect its coast.
I think that the diving is very controlled.
It's illegal to dive.
outside of certain areas because they're trying to protect their wrecks.
So there's always a
tension between the Department of Tourism, which wants to open more of the coast to tourist, diving tourists, and with the Ministry of Culture, which doesn't want people to loot their wrecks.
Turkey has the most, it's preserved its wreck.
Turkey and Greece better than anybody.
I've dived in other countries in the Mediterranean where, you know, everything has been stripped clean because of sport divers and amateur divers, not necessarily evil people.
People think it's all right to take a souvenir and don't know that they're irreparably destroying a site.
Now, all the materials you all find officially belong to the Turkish government, is that right?
And do they ever allow you to bring any of those objects back to the United States to study and then return back to them?
We can bring samples of some things like bones and seeds if we need to, or samples of wood for dendrochronology or carbon-14, but they have a lot of their own labs there now.
so it's probably not done as much as it was.
Um, but not, uh, items that I would identify perhaps as an art object, you cannot... Not, no.
However, they would be very happy for us to have a traveling exhibit
of what we've done, and we almost had a traveling exhibit in this country of the Ulubarun shipwreck, which is so phenomenal.
It was a royal ship, there's no doubt of that.
It's so rich.
It's got the only gold scarab ever found of Egypt's most famous queen, Nefertiti.
It's got the oldest glass ingots ever found, the largest collection of gold and silver Canaanite jewelry any archaeological site's ever produced.
It's got ivory objects of incredible beauty.
It's got probably the finest Canaanite statuette ever found, a female covered with gold, a bronze statuette.
And they were willing to let that go.
What happened is, of course, you have to set up various venues in America and you have to raise money to do it and have the exhibitors and so forth.
And the man, the curator of the museum, which was going to take the lead in this, died.
And nobody else has picked up the ball yet.
This has happened within the last two years.
And it's too bad because now they've opened their own museum just for that, and while it was still being built, they would have let it go, the whole thing, out of the country for a year or two.
Now it would be much harder for that to happen.
I think it's a fantastic museum.
All right, now let's, Chronologic, let's go back.
When you first got here in the mid-'70s, what was the project?
The first one we did was the glass wreck, the medieval glass wreck.
And that was about how many years?
That we spent two and a half, three summers on.
So you finished that in the late-'70s.
Mm-hmm.
Then what?
We did some surveys.
We worked on a Hellenistic wreck.
We never completed that excavation because it turned out it went under a boulder slide and it was just logistically difficult to do.
We had people working in other places in the Caribbean and Italy and Mombasa, Kenya.
I'm trying to think of where else how students have gone.
I mean, all over the place.
The Great Lakes.
I mean, lots of places.
So in Turkey itself, between 70 and 74, we didn't do an excavation, we did surveys.
And then we got this fantastic Bronze Age shipwreck, which took 11 summers.
That was followed by Fred Hawker doing a Byzantine ship for four summers.
And then we started this classical Greek ship just two summers ago.
And the reason we chose it, it's the only shipwreck ever found from the third quarter of the fifth century BC, which is the golden age of classical Greece, when Pericles and Sophocles and Myron and – I mean, it's when the Parthenon was being built.
you know, the height of classical Greece.
And unfortunately, the ship is not as rich as I'd hoped, but still, it's going to fill in the gap.
It's worth doing.
And what are its dimensions?
It's not very big.
We were finding almost no wood.
We don't understand that yet.
But the only things that we found other than pottery which really stand out as we've
found the ship's two marble eyes.
And people didn't know that they were made of marble before, except for warships.
But this was a very, very modest little merchant vessel, probably 40 feet long, something like that.
And yet it had painted marble eyes, one on each side of the ophthalmote.
And we found some new types of anchors on it.
So we'll have a very nice collection of well-dated pottery from that quarter century.
But we don't find any fine painted ware, for example.
We haven't found any coins.
For some reason we haven't found any tools or weapons.
So I'm disappointed in that sense.
But then it was probably about the size of the fishing boat that takes me back and forth from the camp to the village nearby.
And if that sank, what would you find?
A plastic jerry can, maybe a pocket knife, you know, a screwdriver, not much.
How did y'all locate this vessel?
This was found during one of our annual surveys when
Two divers were simply being towed, actually, rather than swimming about 120 feet down, and they spotted it at 140 feet.
We now have this two-person submersible we can do with three knots, three miles an hour,
150 feet down, and I think we're going to find an incredible number of wrecks.
You asked how we got along with the Turkish government.
This is not for here, but I'll just say that I came home with my heart broken and determined I'd never set foot in Turkey again because of what happened this year, but that's another story.
The Coast Guard stopped us.
Somebody convinced them that we're smugglers.
They stopped us after three days.
They're taking us to court.
It's very, very messy.
We've been through these things before, and so I'm willing to fight it.
We have some very powerful Turkish friends who are, uh, one's uncle is the head of the whole Turkish navy, and I think that we'll come out on top, but, uh, it's too bad it happened.
Um, what is, uh, of the, uh, in all of your work, what is the oldest
in terms of age, the oldest site y'all have worked?
The oldest site is a little controversial because everybody doesn't agree that it's that old, but I'm convinced it's just a bunch of pottery, largely huge jars, stand three or four feet high, big open mouths, from I think 1600 B.C.
There are some archaeologists, well-known archaeologists, I think it's much later from like 1000 B.C.
However, one of our students here wrote her master's thesis on it.
She's Greek, and she's convinced that I'm right.
She's not just trying to please me, and she has good reason for it.
And it will be published at 1600 BC.
But whether or not we call it a real shipwreck or not, we don't know.
We never found anything else.
One of the jars was 100 feet from the others.
We never found a toothpick-sized piece of wood, so we don't understand it.
Maybe some sort of crude vessel capsized, and that's what we have.
But after that, the one from 1300 BC, this Ulubaroon shipwreck is the oldest.
And that's considered the only shipwreck ever excavated because there are others like the one we did where it's a scatter of pottery and you don't know exactly how to explain it.
You mean the oldest by anybody, anywhere?
Well, they're dugouts found in lakes that go back and over, but a real ship, a sailing ship.
Oh, they're older vessels, like buried in the Egyptian sands are some vessels, so I should say seagoing, only shipwreck, not the oldest evidence of a vessel.
As far as anyone knows, how far back did seagoing vessels, when did they originate?
At least 40,000 years ago.
Maybe more.
People could not have reached Australia at any point since humanity has been around without crossing water, because that's why there are kangaroos there, but not in India.
And there's this certain space that somebody had to get across.
The same thing can be said for the... I'm much more familiar with the Mediterranean, so I'll speak about that.
We know that when people were living in caves in the Middle Stone Age, the Mesolithic period, they were going to the island of Milos to get obsidian, the hard black volcanic stone with which they made scrapers and blades and so forth.
It's been identified as coming from Milos, and the only way to get to Milos then is now is to go buy some sort of watercraft.
So that's 11,000 years ago.
We know that they colonized Crete
about 8,000 years ago, about 6,000 B.C.
I used to think that, you know, maybe some poor guy was washed up with his wife clinging to a tree floating, but
You know, we don't think sometimes.
That couldn't possibly be the case.
A graduate student of archaeology at Cambridge University wrote one of the best papers I've ever written on the deliberate colonization of Crete in 6000 B.C.
He studied with animal husbandry people and found out
You can't just take one pregnant cow and start a herd because by inbreeding it won't work.
So you have to have, I think, something like six cows and six dogs.
I mean, they arrived there with sheep and goats and cows and dogs.
They arrived with, started planting grain right away.
And he said probably that when they went with work, they have big enough to carry families and animals.
and probably tons of grain to get through the first winter because right away they planted crops.
So it was a deliberate colonization.
So that was, that's before people lived in houses, before they had
could make pottery before they had any kind of metallurgy, they were crossing the sea.
So seafaring is probably one of the very oldest professions.
So fourth century B.C.
you all have worked on.
Uh-huh.
And what?
Or older, okay, sixteenth century B.C.
Oh, I'm sorry, sixteenth century.
Thirteenth century B.C.
And now, what's the most modern you all have worked on?
Right now,
Bartu Arnold, who works for INA, he was the state archaeologist of Texas after Carl Clausen, and he is the one that published the 1554 fleet, and he is the one who located and built the large copper dam around La Salle Ship La Belle, and now he's joined us.
He is doing a Civil War blockade runner in Galveston now, the Denby.
So, the 1860s, so…
Now, some of our people may have worked on more recent wrecks in rivers and lakes in this country.
I'm trying to think whether we have actually sponsored anything much later.
We've certainly done a lot of stuff on 1812, War of 1812, and Revolutionary War ships in Lake George, Lake Champlain, and the New York River in Penobscot Bay, Maine.
Let's see.
We have some students right now.
working on the Hunley.
The, uh, the head of the whole project is one of our graduates.
And we have two graduate students.
The Civil, isn't that a Civil War submarine?
Oh, yes, yes.
Yeah.
In Charleston.
Yes.
Now, of, uh, the, all the projects you personally?
No.
Wow.
Texas A&M and, um, INA together, uh, with the U.S.
Navy, uh, did an archaeological survey of Normandy.
That's right.
I forgot about that.
All right.
So, so.
Not quite 4,000 years, but more than 3,000 years.
Of all the projects that George Bass has worked on, what's the favorite for you?
Oh, without any doubt, the Bronze Age shipwreck.
As I say, that's considered one of the great archaeological finds of all time.
Even though I'm not the one that's going to publish it.
See, 20 years later, I'm just now almost getting the second volume ready on the glass wreck to go to the Texas A&M University Press.
I didn't tell you that the Texas A&M University Press started an article archaeology series for us, and that was subsidized by the Association of Former Students to get the first volume out.
And then we started a second series, which are cheaper books for students to use.
And a lot of these are our students' better master's theses are published, and it's soft cover.
And they've been so popular, and the English publishers picked up the English rights.
And so Texas A&M University Press now has two world-renowned series on article archaeology.
All right, and one of the notes I had written to mention to you after we get through, but I'll mention it on this, as I'm hoping that you would write a history of the INA for the press.
I am certainly thinking about a number of things in my retirement, but one of them is to be a history to be published a hundred years after my death, because it's going to be filled with stories that you would not believe.
And I just think that even the children of the people shouldn't be, I mean, the poor guy who shot his wife to death, or the woman who had her throat slit by her boyfriend.
But we do need that, we do need somewhere for that to be done sometime.
I wrote a book called Archaeology Beneath the Sea, a personal account, which was the story of my beginnings in this field from 1960 to 1973 when I formed INA, and it ends with the discovery of the glass wreck and this wreck from 1600 B.C.
It came out in 75, so it was before I came to take CNN.
Who published that?
It was published by Walker and Company.
And even though they got me on the Today Show to push the book, it's such a small publisher that it had no circulation.
It got good reviews.
However, it came out in Italian and Bulgarian and Japanese.
Is it out of print?
Oh, yeah.
What about the press doing a second edition with you doing an intro?
Well, it's now being e-published.
Oh, okay.
I brought it up to date.
just with a long chapter covering the last 25 years.
However, I would like to write a sequel to it, to be published in my lifetime.
All right, now that's what I'm talking about, for the NM Press.
Of all the individual objects you have found, what are some of the most interesting, exotic, favorite objects?
Each wreck probably has its favorite.
Cape Galladonia probably a little stone cylinder seal some merchant had carried that he would use as his document to roll it out over clay.
And it was carved in Syria 400 years or more before the ship sank.
So it must have been a family heirloom passed from father to son in some merchant family.
From the Yasiata Byzantine wreck, which was a 7th century Byzantine ship, it would have been the bronze, lead-filled,
bust of Athena, which was used as the counterbalance for a scale of weighing device on the ship.
From the defense, a leather powder horn.
Or was that from the Yorktown wreck?
Ooh, I can't remember.
From the glass wreck,
It's funny because I published a little grooming kit with a pair of scissors, part of a razor, and a wooden delousing comb because I farmed out to the world authorities.
Somebody at the Ashmolean Museum is publishing the copper and bronze utensils on the ship.
Marilyn Jenkins at the Metropolitan Museum of Art is publishing the glazed pottery.
One of the top bone experts is publishing the faunal remains.
I had so many experts publishing it.
that I didn't say much for myself.
But that was so human that I got into the whole study of vermin on people at sea.
Columbus's sailors complained about lice.
Magellan's sailors complained about vermin.
And so that must have been very important, this little delousing comb.
I got into the history of beards, types of scissors used.
uh, shaving, uh, it just, it made it very human for me.
And a little hand-carved chess set, which, uh, none of us recognized in one of our graduate students.
See how valuable it is to have a seminar.
I, I gave him two little funny-looking little pieces of wood, and I said, see if you can figure out what these are.
And he came back a week later and gave a wonderful seminar report on the oldest dated chess set in the world.
There were two castles, and he recognized them from a medieval ivory carving of two women playing chess.
They're nothing like modern books.
It's just a little piece of flat wood with a notch in the center.
And so that made it human.
That was nice.
The Ullaburun shipwreck, the Bronze Age shipwreck, the gold chalice.
I mean, it's a chalice about that big.
Archaeologically it's not very important because we don't know where it was made or when, but it was just such an exciting discovery.
And it was caught on film.
It was, when it was actually uncovered by hand, one of the cameramen was there, and then when Robin Pearcy comes up the ladder, he telephoned with the telephone booth.
who had a little telephone.
He said, get George over here right away.
And so they had two cameras and sound for this Nova film we made.
And Robin comes up the ladder and I said, what you got, Robin?
He said,
I shouldn't be the one to tell you this.
Jack and Jamal, they found it.
And I said, what is it?
And he said, I've never, ever seen gold.
I mean, so emotional.
People think we scripted and acted it.
I've never seen gold like that underwater.
I said, what, what?
He says, it's a gold bowl, I'm sure of it, you know.
And it was very exciting.
And gold found like that is shiny?
Just absolutely.
Gold, it's valuable because it's rare, but I think it's also valuable because it doesn't corrode.
So most of the metal you take out of the sea has to be treated with great respect.
Go and just rinse it off, and there it is.
It may have a little concretion on it, but sometimes there's not even any concretion.
Silver will be dulled?
Silver can disappear completely.
I don't understand necessarily what happens with...
electrolysis underwater.
But even on some modernist wrecks like two or three hundred years old, the silver coins are all horribly corroded.
But now the silver jewelry on this 3,300 year old ship is beautifully preserved.
So it just depends on the conditions.
Are there any metals that are particularly difficult to work with?
Iron disappears, but we have now developed the world standard for how you do it.
When things fall in the water, when iron falls in the water, and we know this because we lost a hammer once from our deck and found it a year later, within one year it's covered completely with a coating of calcium carbonate, and this builds up in thickness over the years so it can get to be one or two inches thick.
So what we do is we find these amorphous lumps of concretion.
We treat them as carefully on our plans as things we recognize.
We don't know what they are.
We bring them up, we'll x-ray them first, because the iron inside is rusted away, so it's just an empty cavity inside.
Then we know where to break them, and then we put in epoxy, and then with pneumatic chisels we remove the concretion, and we have an absolutely perfect epoxy replica of the original iron implement.
And these are so accurate that we've even done locks.
It took a month to do one lock with the intricate inner workings and springs still intact.
But it's all plastic.
The scissors I talk about and the razor, we can cut paper with them, but it's plastic because the original iron disintegrated centuries ago.
Let's see.
Most frustrating, most difficult project.
To work with.
This fall.
Because we were all set for a two-month survey, and it raised a great deal of money from National Geographic and others, and everything worked beautifully.
On the third day, we found a Roman wreck 130 feet deep, and we thought, oh, we were ready to celebrate, and the Turkish Coast Guard came out and stopped us.
So, it was the lowest I've ever felt, I think.
Oh, no, certainly no lower than when the Cypress War stopped the first INA project after just one week, and I thought,
you know, there goes the institute.
What am I going to do?
Go back to work for the post office?
And what made it frustrating was that you knew the potential and you weren't, haven't been able yet to continue with that.
Yeah.
But have there been some other projects that were frustrating that you thought you'd found something and as you really worked on it, it turned out to be very little in terms of importance?
No.
Our wrecks have usually, for almost the 40 years I've been in this, have been the major wreck being excavated in the Mediterranean at any given time.
There's no more important wrecks ever found than the glass wreck and the Ullabroon wreck.
And we don't want to ever get to be second to anybody else.
We're very competitive because you're always competing for funds and students and everything else.
And that's why we got this submarine, so we can go out and find an Iron Age wreck.
I'd love to find an Iron Age wreck.
One's not been known.
Or a Neolithic wreck, or an early Bronze Age wreck, or a Minoan wreck.
I mean, people say, what would you like to find?
You know, a dozen things.
equally exciting.
A wreck full of bronze statues.
Most of the original Greek bronze statues in the world today come from beneath the sea because they weren't melted down by later people.
They were preserved.
But there mostly finds of sponge divers in the early part of the century.
So, you know, to find a wreck and excavate it carefully with statues would be very exciting.
Share some examples of the amusing kinds of incidents or goofs or mistakes.
Oh, I like to talk about our mistakes because other people can learn from them.
For example, in the early days, we knew nothing about conservation.
We were pioneers.
We would rinse things off for a week in fresh water.
And now what's happened is they look great in the museum for 30 years, but after 35 years, it took that long for the salts inside to crystallize and start making the surfaces exfoliate and come off.
And so our professional conservators now have to work on those.
We didn't know how to only we used to just pour the mud out of the amphoras not knowing we were losing very valuable evidence.
In the early days the equipment wasn't nearly as safe for diving because we didn't have the sea view gauge and so you just run out of air and pull a reserve and if you didn't have a reserve you hope your buddy was close enough to buddy breed.
We did a lot of that stuff and now we don't do that anymore.
We don't want excitement on a dive.
Are there any kind of pranks or tricks or that are normally played on the beginner?
There was one done to me back, it was terribly funny at the time.
It's a long story.
It's in the book Archaeology Beneath the Sea.
We used to have this expression, bye-bye stupid, when people would jump in the water.
It's a long story behind it, and so we even named the Bards the bye-bye stupid.
And when Larry Jolene was paralyzed by the Benz, and as we took him out of the chamber and sent him up in 1961 to Istanbul to be treated in the chamber, the last thing that was said to him when this U.S.
Army plane, light plane, picked him up to take him was bye-bye stupid.
Well, we found, I found on the wreck one day half of a, it was right after we found a small glass disk, a little pendant, we found a larger one.
And this small one had a Greek monogram on it.
And this one had Greek writing, it was blue-green glass and it was cracked in half and I was trying to make out what the, what the Greek said.
And I couldn't find it and I looked and looked for several dives for the other half because I wanted to find it.
And finally, I think somebody else